Paul slowly opened his eyes and stretched out on the bed; the morning sun
shone through the small window, lighting the room and gently waking him from a
solid sleep. The room wasn't large but that didn't really matter. He was on
Mars! Specially selected for the advance preparation team, a dream job if
there ever was one, Paul was one of a handful of software engineers picked out
to be a part of the preparation team. It was hard to believe that this whole
thing started barely ten months ago but here he was. Paul, and 349 other
people, were chosen as the team to get Mars ready for the larger colony ships.

Once the vessel, the IMC Two (International Mars Coalition), had obtained
Martian orbit, each of the seven groups were dropped to their assigned
planetary locations. The project planners had decided that having seven
different locations would increase the chances that at least one of them would
be successful. Of course they didn't describe it that way. They said that they
wanted colonies spread across the planet so that they would have a better
chance of monitoring the planet as a whole, rather than just one small
region. In any case, Boston, Kansas, and Chicago were deployed in the northern
hemisphere. Alabama, Journey, and Survivor were spread out in the southern
hemisphere. Paul's colony, Bon Jovi, was right on the equator.

It only took Paul a few minutes to go through his morning routine. Then he
headed to the common room. A few of the others were already milling around and
waking up to steaming cups of coffee and trays of reconstituted food. The
breakfast wasn't much but it would be all that was available for a while. The
farming group still had quite a ways to go before they would be able to start
producing fresh food. They promised it would be soon.

Paul shoveled the scrambled eggs and rubbery bacon into his mouth quickly. The
room was abuzz with excitment. No one knew quite what was going to be
happening next but no matter what it was, it would be an adventure. Director
Goliss walked into the room. If it was even possible, she looked more busy and
concerned than she had been on the ship. That made sense. As the director of
Bon Jovi colony, her real work was just getting started. Not only that, the
success, or failure, of the whole site rested on her. Everything Paul had seen
of her so far had only led him to believe that she was up for the job. Quite
capable, in fact. Just a little stressed most of the time.

She caught his eye and shifted to stride purposefully towards his table. She
pulled out a chair and sat. "There you are. Paul, right? I was hoping to find
you. How are you liking it here so far?"

Before he could answer she continued. "Sorry to interupt but I've got an
important assignment for you. Last night I got a message from Van Halen." That
was the base back on Earth. Someone thought it would be funny to have Bon
Jovi, and all of the other "bands", take orders from Van Halen.

"Van Halen said that they need the surface site data for the energy stations
right away. I need you to get that reporting software done as soon as
possible."

Paul nodded. That's right. As the shuttles were dropping off the prep teams,
they had also sent out thousands of sensors to collect readings on the iron
and silicon content at each drop site. The data that those sensors collected
was sitting in large files and needed processing so that Van Halen could build
the small energy harvesting stations at the optimal locations. Obviously,
setting up energy stations quickly was a priority. The processing software
should be pretty simple. Just collect the readings and print the data out in a
format that the managers could understand.

"Yeah, I can start on it immediately," Paul replied. "I should be able to
finish it in the next day or two. In the weeks before we landed I was
experimenting with some programming techniques that should make the job quite
a bit easier."

Director Goliss smiled at him. "Thanks. I knew you would be able to. And when
you're done, be sure to send copies of your code to the other
colonies. Journey is already whining about the software being late. I don't
know what they expect. We just got here!"

She stood from the table looking just a little more relieved.

"Now to get some of this recycled breakfast. I can't wait for the farms to
start working!" She quickly headed off.

Paul glanced at the wall across from him. Almost as soon as the common room
structure had been setup from the prefab units, someone had painted a picture
of a young man and woman on one of the walls. The names "Tommy" and "Gina"
were written over them and the line "Livin' on a prayer" underneath.

"Well," Paul said quietly to himself, "I don't know if we're really 'half-way
there' yet but I know 'we'll make it, I swear'". He finished off his breakfast
and headed to the computer lab. Time to write some software.


